docs: add blog global-variable-support-in-nuxt (#533)
bytebase/bytebase.com: content/blog/global-variable-support-in-nuxt.md

---
title: Global variable support in Nuxt
author: Xiong
published_at: 2022/10/9 12:00:00
feature_image: /static/blog/global-variable-support-in-nuxt/deliver-versions.webp
tags: Education

> description: We recently introduced a global variable in our Nuxt docs to boost our productivity and enhance the experience. I was responsible for this task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: We recently introduced a global version variable in our Nuxt docs to ease the documentation update during release. This article describes how we implement this feature.
```

---

## Background

> On our doc site, we have a few pages with instructions on installing Bytebase, like this one: [Deploy Bytebase in Docker within 5 seconds](https://www.bytebase.com/docs/get-started/install/deploy-with-docker). On these pages, we teach users how to install the latest version of Bytebase by showing command snippets.

Reviewer: Use relative path like /docs/get-started/install/deploy-with-docker

otherwise it will cause full page reload

To achieve this, we create a file named `VERSION` and put it under the root directory. This file only contains one line of the exact latest version number:

```
%%bb_version%%
```

Then we should make some changes to the version component to let it read the version info from this plain file. Before that, we need to install `raw-loader` as a `devDependency` so that we can parse plain text files as raw strings.

And rewrite our `Version.vue` into this:

```vue
// Version.vue

<template>
  <span>{{ VERSION }}</span>
</template>

<script setup>
// The `!raw-loader!` part means that we load this file through raw-loader
// and accept the result as a raw string.
import { default as VERSION } from "!raw-loader!../../VERSION";
</script>
```

Now, whenever we publish a new version of Bytebase, we just need to simply change the version number in the `VERSION` file.

### Limitations

However, the solution of using a version component has some limitations:

> 1. In Nuxt Content, we cannot use a component directly in code blocks surrounded by backticks ` ``` `. To do this, we have to wrap code snippets inside `<pre>` tags. This is an ugly pattern and will cause rendered code blocks to lose the original styles and functionalities like copy buttons.

Reviewer: this renders 3 backticks, not sure if it's desired.

Author: Yes, it is.

```javascript
// nuxt.config.js

...
const VERSION = fse.readFileSync("VERSION").toString();
...

export default {
  ...
  hooks: {
    "content:file:beforeParse": (file) => {
      if (file.extension === ".md" && file.path.includes("docs")) {
        file.data = file.data.replace(/$$bb_version$$/g, VERSION);
      }
    },
  },
  ...
};
```

In markdown files, insert the placeholder `$$bb_version$$` into where we are putting the version number.

````markdown
Run the following command to start Bytebase on [https://bytebase.example.com](https://bytebase.example.com/)

```bash
docker run --init \
  --name bytebase \
  --restart always \
  --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway \
  --publish 80:80 \
  --volume ~/.bytebase/data:/var/opt/bytebase \
  bytebase/bytebase:$$bb_version$$ \
  --data /var/opt/bytebase \
  --host https://bytebase.example.com \
  --port 80
```
````

Now there's no need for `<pre>` tags or extra loader packages, and the placeholder works in every corner including link addresses. Perfect! ✌️

## Result

> [This](https://github.com/bytebase/bytebase.com/pull/506/files) is how we update our docs now. Concise and effective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[This](https://github.com/bytebase/bytebase.com/pull/506/files) is how we update our docs now. Just a single line change to update the version string and all version references scattered over the doc will get updated. Concise and effective.
```
